{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 .SFNS-Regular_wdth_opsz110000_GRAD_wght2580000;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red18\green31\blue60;\red10\green22\blue51;\red14\green76\blue221;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red14\green76\blue221;\red109\green109\blue109;\red10\green22\blue51;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c9020\c16863\c30196;\cssrgb\c3529\c11765\c25882\c5882;\cssrgb\c4706\c40000\c89412;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c4706\c40000\c89412;\cssrgb\c50196\c50196\c50196;\cssrgb\c3529\c11765\c25882\c14118;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}
{\list\listtemplateid7\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid601\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid7}
{\list\listtemplateid8\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid701\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid8}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid7\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid8\listoverridecount0\ls8}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww17900\viewh18800\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs34 \cf0 Mountain Aglow materials text descriptions - Theme 1 Watching the Volcano
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\

\f0\b The Montserrat Volcano Observatory\
\

\f1\b0 Image - MVO.jpg\
\
Tags: Science
\f0\b \

\f1\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The Montserrat Volcano Observatory (MVO) was established shortly after the first phreatic eruption of the Soufri\'e8re Hills Volcano on July 18th 1995. Since then, the MVO monitors and provides advice about the activity of Soufri\'e8re Hills to the Government of Montserrat. Collected monitoring data is published in a Weekly Activity Report, and forms the basis for an annual formal risk assessment, produced by the MVO and the Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC).\
[Image here]\
The MVO is also responsible for outreach related to the Soufri\'e8re Hills Volcano, including public meetings, work with schools and communities, local radio broadcasting, and national and international media enquiries.\
The Observatory is staffed by scientists from a variety of organisations working with local personnel. The scientific teams come mainly from the Seismic Research Unit (SRU) of the University of the West Indies in Trinidad and the British Geological Survey (BGS).\
To find out more about MVO, visit their website here: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mvoms.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \strokec4 http://mvoms.org/}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 Caption: MVO has occupied five different buildings since the eruption began in 1995. The current building on Hope Dr Fleming was purpose-built by the Government of Montserrat in 2003.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\
Location: Hope Dr Fleming\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: Since 2003\
\
\

\b Ground Deformation\
\

\b0 Images - EDM.jpg, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee6589dab76866010485d3/attachments/5dee6df9cf981c0cb968d527/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5dee6589dab76866010485d3%2F3da6c506cb07eef5c4a2c3ca4ac19766%2FIMG_0243.JPG"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 IMG_0243.JPG}}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
Tags: Science
\f2\fs28 \cf2 \cb5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
Description:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 The deformation of the surface of the Earth reflects the processes happening at depth. Methods such as GPS (Global Positioning System) or EDM (Electronic Density Measurement) can measure small displacements of the surface, for example along faults before and after an earthquake, or even of entire tectonic plates. GPS and EDM are also used to monitor the change of shape of volcanoes, for example if their surface bulges or deflates, giving an indication of magma movements within the crust.\
\
Image 1 caption\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 Electronic Distances Measurement (EDM) instruments emit beams of infrared light which is reflected by a prism or target on the volcano. Because the speed of the light beams is known, the distance to the target can be measured very precisely.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\
Location: ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: 28/12/2017\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
Image 2 caption:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 This global positioning system (GPS) instrument receives continuous signals from several satellites, to calculate very precisely (~1cm error) its position and how it varies with time.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\
Location: ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: ?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \

\b Volcanic Gases\
\

\b0 Images - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee6602ab631212865ab38d/attachments/5e287f8a887d6e841c2873fe/download/spectrometer_path.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 spectrometer_path.png}}\cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee6602ab631212865ab38d/attachments/5e28807a19434f268efead65/download/DOASLL.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 DOASLL.png}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee6602ab631212865ab38d/attachments/5e287fff83947640232cb69f/download/helicspec.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 helicspec.png}}
\b \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 Tags: Science
\f2\b\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 Description: \
As magma makes its way to the surface, the pressure lowers, causing it to degas: Gas bubbles form and want to occupy more space at the magma continues to rise. They also often want to rise more quickly than the magma. All of this creates forces in the magma body, which can change how it erupts. Different types of gas leave the magma at different times or depths. Thus, detecting the amount and types of gas gives us vital clues about the inside of the volcano we cannot see.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
Image 1: (This should be the first image.)\
Caption: Different types of spectrometers are used to measure the gases in the plume at different points. Gas composition and ratios indicate what is going on inside the volcano. The annotations visualise how a spectrometers scans across and detects a plume and its composition.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Richard Herd\
Location: ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: ?\
\
\
Image 2: (This should be the second image.)\
Caption: This is a permanent spectrometer which scans the plume from the ground.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Richard Herd\
Location: Lover's Lane\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: ?\
\
Image 3: (This should be the last image.)\
Caption: Here the spectrometer is pointed at the plume from the helicopter.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\
Location: ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: ?\
\
\

\b Fumaroles\

\b0 \
Tags: Science\
\
Image - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e43575374e99d50672be713/attachments/5e4357d0e8d07849c5ff08da/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5e43575374e99d50672be713%2F70c35dd715fdc438d70890cbd8e8c066%2FIMG_2894.JPG"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 IMG_2894.JPG}}\cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Fumaroles are openings in the ground which emit volcanic gases like carbon dioxide, sulphur dioxide and water vapour escape. They are common near the active vent of a volcano (crater and/or dome), but they can often also be found further away on the flanks of volcanoes. Changes in the temperature and composition of fumaroles are an important indicator for processes in the volcano's interior, therefore it is important to monitor and regularly sample them.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 Caption: Fumaroles at Galway's in 2015\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Karen Pascal\
Location: Galway's\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: 2015\
\
\

\b Seismicity\
\

\b0 Tags: Science, Song\
\
Image - Seismicity.png\
Audio - L0001897_ZunkyNDem_Seismicity.mp3 https://soundcloud.com/disaster-passed/seismicity-zunky-ndem/s-Xqa75D3vYjr\
\

\b  \
Description\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
Seismometers can detect different types of small earthquakes within the volcano, which can tell us something about how magma moves in the interior of the volcano. In that sense, seismometers help us 'see' inside the volcano.\
[insert image here]\
Long-period earthquakes have a shape that tells us about the disturbance and movement of gas-filled magma.\
Volcano-tectonic and hybrid earthquakes have frequencies that imply rock is being broken and magma is moving inside the volcano.\
Seismometers can help us pick up characteristics of earthquakes that are so small people can't even feel them. However, at several points during the 20th century, volcanic earthquakes on Montserrat were so strong that they destroyed buildings. And in the early stages of the eruption in 1995 and 1996, earthquakes frequently shook the island, as described in the Song 'Seismicity' by Zunky N'Dem.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [embed Soundcloud here]\
Seismicity\
'Back in the thirties / Earthquake shook the hills\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Upscale on the Richter / Wrecked churches and mills\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Coming and coming / More frequent than rain\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Affecting the main crops / Limes, cotton and cane\
Oo la la\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Emerald city seismicity\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Emerald city seismicity\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 We\'92re living in a seismic city\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Full of seismicity\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Montserrat is a seismic city\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Full of seismicity\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Long ground is a seismic city\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Full of seismicity\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Plymouth is a seismic city\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Full of seismicity\
People that count of history / The future will not be a mystery\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Truth otherwise hidden will come to light / Any sign of activity is proof of life\
Examine the sixties (Seismicity)\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Increased emissions (Seismicity)\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 As Galway\'92s and Gage\'92s (Seismicity)\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 They kicked up a storm (Seismicity)\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Steam from the crater (Seismicity)\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Sulphur in the air (Seismicity)\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Creating concern (Seismicity)\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 For over a year (Seismicity)\
[Chorus]\
Research and investigation / Ignored by this generation\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Now scientific forecast / Has come to pass\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Still one unanswered question / How long will it last'\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Extract from Song 'Seismicity' by Zunky N'Dem\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Image caption:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 Caption: Different types of earthquakes at Soufri\'e8re Hills Volcano.\
Credit: Paddy Smith / Martin Mangler\
\
\

\b Dome Photography
\b0 \
\
Tags: Science\
\
Images - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c/attachments/5e287c4d549ed65119d21ead/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c%2Fda8c389dd2709f9789ad8915591f27c2%2FDSCN1501.JPG"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 DSCN1501.JPG}}\cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c/attachments/5e287ce602483e7f9e368bb5/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c%2F8aaa128cdb1c39da3fdbf3611d91917c%2Fvapour_gas_dome.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 vapour_gas_dome.png}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c/attachments/5e287cd4ba5e9e4c66c1a254/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c%2F9923f31ceaaf4d096a958a5d67bbe04d%2Finfrared.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 infrared.png}}\cf2 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Description:\
Photography is one of the tools scientists use to monitor activity at lava domes. Photos taken with 'normal' cameras are useful to study changes in the shape of the dome and monitor growth when it is erupting. In addition, special infra-red cameras are used  to study temperatures on the surface of the dome and monitor the circulation of hot fluids.\
[Images 1, 2, 3 here]\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c/attachments/5e287c4d549ed65119d21ead/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c%2Fda8c389dd2709f9789ad8915591f27c2%2FDSCN1501.JPG"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 DSCN1501.JPG}}\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
This should be the first photo.\
Caption: Careful photography of the dome and its surroundings is regularly produced by MVO scientists to detect when new lava is being added or the dome is becoming unstable.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\
Location: Soufri\'e8re Hills\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: ?\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c/attachments/5e287ce602483e7f9e368bb5/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c%2F8aaa128cdb1c39da3fdbf3611d91917c%2Fvapour_gas_dome.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 vapour_gas_dome.png}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 This should be the second photo.\cb1 \
\cb5 Caption: A photograph of the steaming dome of Soufri\'e8re Hills volcano. The vapour and gas makes it difficult to study the dome in detail.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\cb1 \
\cb5 Location: Soufri\'e8re Hills\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: ?\cb1 \
\cb5 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c/attachments/5e287cd4ba5e9e4c66c1a254/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5dee6469f643050ce7ef894c%2F9923f31ceaaf4d096a958a5d67bbe04d%2Finfrared.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 infrared.png}}\
This should be the third photo.\
Caption: This photo of the dome shows an infra-red image of the same area as the previous photo. Infra-red photography helps to 'see' the dome through vapour and gas and record temperatures on the surface of the dome.  Red colours designate areas with high temperatures and blue colours are colder. The photo shows that hydrothermal (hot and gas rich) fluids still circulate in and around the dome.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\
Location: Soufri\'e8re Hills\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: ?\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 The Lava Dome today
\b0 \
\
Tags: Science, 2000+\
\
Images: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e440d5ed499080e40b20b1d/attachments/5e440dafce4f746087745e3a/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5e440d5ed499080e40b20b1d%2F036bd7db49058c553eaca6c91f89d97e%2FIMG_1345.JPG"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 IMG_1345.JPG}}\cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e440d5ed499080e40b20b1d/attachments/5e440db41648cc1b4798bd4b/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5e440d5ed499080e40b20b1d%2Fc49f41efa280661d13ac5274897fb254%2FIMG_1349b.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 IMG_1349b.jpg}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Description\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Usually, the lava dome is shrouded either in clouds or volcanic gasses, and we rarely get a good view of the dome and its current morphology. These pictures were taken by MVO scientist Karen Pascal from a helicopter, looking north to northwest.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [Images 1, 2 here]\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e440d5ed499080e40b20b1d/attachments/5e440dafce4f746087745e3a/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5e440d5ed499080e40b20b1d%2F036bd7db49058c553eaca6c91f89d97e%2FIMG_1345.JPG"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 IMG_1345.JPG}}\
This should be the first image.\
Caption: The rugged surface of the lava dome at Soufri\'e8re Hills.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Karen Pascal\
Location: Soufri\'e8re Hills\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: ?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e440d5ed499080e40b20b1d/attachments/5e440db41648cc1b4798bd4b/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5e440d5ed499080e40b20b1d%2Fc49f41efa280661d13ac5274897fb254%2FIMG_1349b.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 IMG_1349b.jpg}}\
Caption: As lava is extruded, the shape of the lava dome constantly changes. By monitoring such changes in dome morphology, we can study how and how fast lava is extruded. This is important because rapid dome growth increases the likelihood of dome instabilities and collapse, which forms hazardous pyroclastic flows.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Karen Pascal\
Location: Soufri\'e8re Hills\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: ?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Volcanic Ash\
\

\b0 Tags: Science, 1995-1996, 1997-1999, 2000+\
\
Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e8ecc4b28bbc6227752eeea/attachments/5eac37800a2417211a8a878f/download/A4DX6A_(1).jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \cb5 \ul \ulc6 \outl0\strokewidth0 A4DX6A (1).jpg}}\cf6 \cb5 \ul \ulc6 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Changes in ash composition can give us important clues about the activity of volcanoes. The thickness of the deposit and type of ash also provides information about the size and style of an eruption. It is also important to ensure the ash is not hazardous to health. That's why, at times when everyone on island was struggling to rid their homes of ash, scientists regularly went out and collected ash samples to analyse their composition.\
[Image here]\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e8ecc4b28bbc6227752eeea/attachments/5eac37800a2417211a8a878f/download/A4DX6A_(1).jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 A4DX6A (1).jpg}}\
Caption: Scientist wearing an orange boiler suit walks down a hillside covered by ashes from the eruption of Soufri\'e8re Hills.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Barry Lewis / Alamy\
Location: ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: 1997\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 The Story of the Rocks\
\

\b0 tags: Science\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Crystals form in the magma as it rises through the crust and begins to cool. As they crystallise, the tiny crystals continuously record information about the magma, like its composition or temperature. This means that the crystals and textures of the rock provide frozen snapshots of the processes that have happened deep inside the volcano. Once erupted, we can study them in the field and in the laboratory to unravel some of these processes. This way, we can piece together the story of why and how the magma erupted.\
[Images 1, 2, 3, 4 here]\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee678769e4710241a8ad54/attachments/5e287b613c9aec219db57f51/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5dee678769e4710241a8ad54%2F166ddc13df4344eaed5422fca0bb7cf1%2Fenclaves.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 enclaves.png}}\
This should be the first image.\
Caption: Different types of magma interact deep in the crust and they are often brought up together. The black round pieces in the otherwise white rock in this photograph are called 'mafic enclaves' - they come from a hot magma deep in the crust, which encountered another magma body (white) on its way to the surface.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Jenni Barclay\
Location: N/A\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: N/A\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee678769e4710241a8ad54/attachments/5e287b968ff418210ec574af/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5dee678769e4710241a8ad54%2F1da5907a6c30e3b02d9930e3c67f82a0%2FSEM_enclaves.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 SEM_enclaves.png}}\
This should be the second image.\
Caption: A magnified view of the contact between the black mafic enclaves (left) and the white host rock (right), captured by a Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM). Microscopic interactions between the different magmas and their crystal cargo can tell us about the depths and temperatures where the two magmas interacted with each other.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Jenni Barclay\
Location: N/A\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: N/A\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee678769e4710241a8ad54/attachments/5e1cd5d26bb8fc7cd80ddaba/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5dee678769e4710241a8ad54%2F5c351cae4f1d19a1e4a065e1e2b58d32%2Ffeldspar.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 feldspar.png}}\
This should be the third image.\
Caption: One of the most common types of crystals in the Soufri\'e8re Hills rocks are feldspars. They form white or transparent laths up to a few millimeter length. Under the microscope they often look stripy, as shown in this illustration. Feldspars are particularly useful to reconstruct magma processes.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Bridie Davies\
Location: N/A\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: N/A\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee678769e4710241a8ad54/attachments/5e1cd5dcd37e6583db5548e5/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5dee678769e4710241a8ad54%2F8d35b927cb2da5c69d97a8cfd3a87930%2Famphibole_un-degraded.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 amphibole_un-degraded.png}}\
This should be the last image.\
Caption: Another common type of crystal in the Soufri\'e8re Hills rocks is amphibole. It is usually easy to spot because of its prismatic shape. In the rocks, it will look black, but under the microscope they are often yellow or green. Note: The crystals don't really have eyes and mouths.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Bridie Davies\
Location: N/A\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: N/A\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Surface Activity\
\

\b0 Tags: Song, Science\
\
Audio - https://soundcloud.com/disaster-passed/zunky-ndem-keep-the-faith/s-tvFZU9eF1uX \
Images - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee65c2c237a161ef28bb85/attachments/5e8d99404986c91fa6896f84/download/Rockfall_-_Mudflow.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 Rockfall - Mudflow.png}}\cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee65c2c237a161ef28bb85/attachments/5e288109eb83123ce37d3ad4/download/AJS_20100128_192.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 AJS_20100128_192.jpg}}\cf2 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Description\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Seismometers can pick up signals of rockfalls, mudflows or pyroclastic flows as they move down the volcano. Rockfalls, mudflows and pyroclastic flows each produce a distinct pattern of waves on the seismometer. We can use these traces to detect when falls and flows happen, even if we can't see them.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [Images 1, 2 here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf7 \cb8 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [embed Soundcloud here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Keep The Faith\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 'Like earthquake swarms brought by the tremors / And hot pyroclastic flows\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 All kinds of seismic events / That each Montserratian now knows\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Montserrat\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 No fright\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 See the light\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 This volcanic situation will end\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 And we\'92ll rise again\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Yes we\'92ll smile and dance once again\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 So don\'92t panic when the mud flow like a river\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Every disaster must cease\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Every disaster must cease\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 And don\'92t panic when the earthquakes make you shudder\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 After turmoil there\'92ll be peace\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 After turmoil there\'92ll be peace.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 We won\'92t run and we won\'92t quit.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 But we\'92ll learn to live with it\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 If we keep the faith.'\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Extract from Song 'Keep The Faith' by Zunky N'Dem\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee65c2c237a161ef28bb85/attachments/5e8d99404986c91fa6896f84/download/Rockfall_-_Mudflow.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 Rockfall - Mudflow.png}}\
This should be the first image.\
Caption: Each surface activity leaves a different seismic signal. These graphs show the seismic traces for a rockfall (top) and a mudflow (bottom). Note the different lengths of the events.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Paddy Smith / Martin Mangler\
Location: N/A\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: N/A\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee65c2c237a161ef28bb85/attachments/5e288109eb83123ce37d3ad4/download/AJS_20100128_192.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 AJS_20100128_192.jpg}}\
This should be the second image.\
Caption: Seismic equipment requires a lot of maintenance to ensure its recording and transmitting the signals back to MVO.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\
Location: ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: ?\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Pyroclastic Flows\
\

\b0 Tags: Science, Accounts, 1995-1996, 199601997\
\
Image - PF_image.png\
Audio - https://soundcloud.com/mountain-aglow/sets/pyroclastic-flows/s-JVsrzJJwKK3\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Description\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 "We knew that they said it was dangerous but until the real flows started to come down and take out houses and take out buildings and burnt out forests and all of these things, we didn\'92t really, until then we didn\'92t get a good grasp."\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Montserrat Resident, 2019\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf7 \cb8 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [Image here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Pyroclastic flows are hot mixtures of gasses and tephra (volcanic rocks of micrometers to meters in size) that travel down volcanic flanks at high speeds of more than 100 km/h. At Soufri\'e8re Hills, pyroclastic flows typically form when the growing dome becomes instable and collapses. Large Vulcanian explosions in 1997 also produced pyroclastic flows when the eruption column lost momentum and collapsed.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Listen to how Montserratians experienced the first pyroclastic flows descending Soufri\'e8re Hills Volcano:\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [embed Soundcloud Playlist here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e418814f3645d0fec2bf83f/attachments/5e41881e745616632cdcdaad/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5e418814f3645d0fec2bf83f%2F640c1ec49dd65457d0d0ed33feff6fe1%2Fimage.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 PF_image.png}}\
Caption: The first pyroclastic flow came down the mountainside on the 3rd of April 1996.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: BGS/MVO Archive\
Location: Tar River Valley\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: 3/4/1996\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\

\b Lahars\

\b0 \
Image - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e93251a49d3623a75dbb6ba/attachments/5e949d21d3f64f312991e0ea/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5e93251a49d3623a75dbb6ba%2Fd623f6ff76efcd93dbc9febcf1ab126a%2FMVO_lahar_photos_9_11_2004.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 MVO_lahar_photos_9_11_2004.jpg}}
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Description\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Volcanoes like Soufri\'e8re Hills produce lots of volcanic ash when they erupt. That's why the summits of many volcanoes are covered by a thick layer of ash. Rainfall can remobilise this ash to form so-called mudflows or lahars. This are mixtures of water, ash and other volcanic debris, running down the volcanoes following river channels and destroying everything in their path.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [image here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Lahars can occur years after volcanoes have stopped erupting, making them an especially dangerous hazard. In Montserrat, heavy rainfall is common, and so are lahars. The video shows a lahar across the upper Belham Valley crossing in 2016.
\b \
\
https://www.facebook.com/watch/?v=10154501200038958\

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e93251a49d3623a75dbb6ba/attachments/5e949d21d3f64f312991e0ea/download?backingUrl=https%3A%2F%2Ftrello-attachments.s3.amazonaws.com%2F5dea7b473005233fbd2d1015%2F5e93251a49d3623a75dbb6ba%2Fd623f6ff76efcd93dbc9febcf1ab126a%2FMVO_lahar_photos_9_11_2004.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 MVO_lahar_photos_9_11_2004.jpg}}\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
Caption: A lahar in the Belham Valley in 2004. The vehicle was eventually swept away.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\
Location: Belham Valley\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date:  9/11/2004\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\
\
\

\b Agents of Change\
\

\b0 Tags - Science, 1997-1999, 2000+, Belham Valley Area, Eastern Montserrat\
Images - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1ba0/attachments/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1bae/download/June_25_1997_pyroclastic_flow_Montserrat_PDC.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 June 25 1997 pyroclastic flow Montserrat_PDC.jpg}}\cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 , {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1ba0/attachments/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1bc0/download/May_21_2004_lahars.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 May_21_2004_lahars.jpg}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1ba0/attachments/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1bb7/download/MVO_lahar_photos_9_11_2004.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \ul \ulc6 MVO_lahar_photos_9_11_2004.jpg}}\cf2 \cb3 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Description\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 The materials coming from the volcano change the landscape, sometimes rapidly, sometimes slowly. There are many types of flow, the one most talked about was the pyroclastic flows but lahars ( flows mixtures of loose volcanic material and water) and surges (the violent and fast-moving part of the hot volcanic flows) also changed the landscape.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [Images 1, 2, 3 here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1ba0/attachments/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1bae/download/June_25_1997_pyroclastic_flow_Montserrat_PDC.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 June 25 1997 pyroclastic flow Montserrat_PDC.jpg}}\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
This should be the first image.\
Caption: Pyroclastic flows burn vegetation, erode and destroy buildings and infrastructure as well as being a direct threat to life. This is the edge of some of the highly destructive flows in June 1997.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Paul Cole\
Location: ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: 25/6/1997\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1ba0/attachments/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1bc0/download/May_21_2004_lahars.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 May_21_2004_lahars.jpg}}\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
This should be the second image.\
Caption: Lahars (Mudflows) cause rapid landscape change, particularly in the Belham Valley and around Plymouth. This is a lahar in the Belham Valley in May 2004.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\
Location: Belham Valley\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: 21/05/2004\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1ba0/attachments/5ebae1fa51ec3b80eeab1bb7/download/MVO_lahar_photos_9_11_2004.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \ul \ulc4 \strokec4 MVO_lahar_photos_9_11_2004.jpg}}\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
This should be the third image.\
Caption: This vehicle in a lahar in 2004 in the Belham Valley was eventually swept away.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\
Location: Belham Valley\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: 9/11/2004\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\
\

\b Everybody Monitors the Volcano\
\

\b0 Tags - Science, Song, Accounts\
Image - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee66d1a6ace23a2b4e3703/attachments/5eac37502247430cbdf4e849/download/A30RC6_(1).jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 A30RC6 (1).jpg}}\
Audio - L0000017_ZunkyNDem_Little-Island-Live-Volcano.mp3, https://soundcloud.com/mountain-aglow/sets/everybody-monitors-the-volcano/s-fbMdTt3VukW, https://soundcloud.com/disaster-passed/zunky-ndem-keep-the-faith/s-tvFZU9eF1uX?in=disaster-passed/sets/mountain-aglow/s-hInqB8cergK\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Description\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [Insert image here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 It's not only the scientists of the Montserrat Volcano Observatory who keep a close eye on the activity of Soufri\'e8re Hills Volcano. All Montserratians have become extremely knowledgeable and conscious about the behaviour of the volcano.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [embed Soundcloud Interview Playlist here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Sharing this knowledge is a really important way that we improve understanding of how volcanoes work, and how they impact communities.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf7 \cb8 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [embed Soundcloud Song here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Keep The Faith\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 'To cope with this dread imposter / We had to learn its vocabulary\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Just to understand all the details / That the scientists tell to me\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Like earthquake swarms brought by the tremors / And hot pyroclastic flows\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 All kinds of seismic events / That each Montserratian now knows'\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Extract from Song 'Keep The Faith' by Zunky N'Dem\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5dee66d1a6ace23a2b4e3703/attachments/5eac37502247430cbdf4e849/download/A30RC6_(1).jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 A30RC6 (1).jpg}}\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
Caption: A mother and her child observe an eruption of Soufri\'e8re Hills Volcano in 1997\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Barry Lewis / Alamy\
Location: ?\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: 1997\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 Lyrics for Little Island Live Volcano (Calypso)\
On a July 95 evening\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Like a dagger aimed at the heart\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 A stubborn volcanic crisis\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Placed this island under attack\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 It was just as we were recovering\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 From an extended recession\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 That this monster rose up to hurt us\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 and push us back to the ground\
Montserrat\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 No fright\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 See the light\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 This volcanic situation will end\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 And we\'92ll rise again\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Yes we\'92ll smile and dance once again\
So don\'92t panic when you hear evacuation\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Every disaster must cease\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Every disaster must cease\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 And don\'92t panic when ash cover the nation\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 After turmoil there\'92ll be peace\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 After turmoil there\'92ll be peace.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 We won\'92t run and we won\'92t quit.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 But we\'92ll learn to live with it\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 If we keep the faith.\
To cope with this dread imposter\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 We had to learn its vocabulary\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Just to understand all the details that scientists tell to me\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Like earthquake swarms brought by the tremors\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 And hot pyroclastic flows\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 All kinds of seismic events\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 That each Montserratian now knows\
Montserrat\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 No fright\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 See the light\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 This volcanic situation will end\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 And we\'92ll rise again\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Yes we\'92ll smile and dance once again\
So don\'92t panic when the mud flow like a river\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Every disaster must cease\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Every disaster must cease\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 And don\'92t panic when the earthquakes make you shudder\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 After turmoil there\'92ll be peace\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 After turmoil there\'92ll be peace.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 We won\'92t run and we won\'92t quit.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 But we\'92ll learn to live with it\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 If we keep the faith.\
The worst thing is the stress it bring us\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 It set the nation at war\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 It\'92s villages and its people against government and governor\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 It\'92s residents against British\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 It\'92s truth against false rumour\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Its questioning of the EOC\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Its parents against teacher\
Montserrat\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 No fright\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 See the light\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 This volcanic situation will end\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 And we\'92ll rise again\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Yes we\'92ll smile and dance once again\
So don\'92t panic though the dome is getting higher\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Every disaster must cease\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Every disaster must cease\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 And don\'92t panic at the red hot mount of fire\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 After turmoil there\'92ll be peace\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 After turmoil there\'92ll be peace.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 We won\'92t run and we won\'92t quit.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 But we\'92ll learn to live with it\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 If we keep the faith.\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \

\b Volcano Burning\
\

\b0 Tags - Song, Poetry, 1995-1996, 1997-1999, 2000+\
\
Audio: L0003435_BernieIrish_Volcano-burning.mp3, https://soundcloud.com/disaster-passed/bernie-irish-the-alliouagana-singers-volcano-burning/s-fN6Gig04wbH, \
Docs: Sir_Howard_Fergus_Sideshow.docx\
Images: \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\b\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Description\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Before the volcano awakened in 1995, Montserratians would have "brushed off any idea of Soufri\'e8re Hills erupting" (Song 'Volcano Burning' by Bernie Irish and the Alliougana singers). But the eruption that began on 18 July 1995 would change the perspective of Montserratians on their island forever...\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [Image 1 here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf7 \cb8 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [embed Soundcloud here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Volcano Burning\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 'Then I was walking home from work and smelling sulphur and listening with bewilderment at this humming sound coming from the mountain\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 A cracking sound: ba-dou bo-dou! The whole of town turned dark\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Day turned into night\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 I had to run for my life\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 I was away in America when it all happened\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 But I had a great great scare\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Soufriere Hills Volcano had us in this fear\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 But if only we could rewrite history we would pen a different story\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Detailing life\'92s memories of pre-volcano Montserrat\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Happy go lucky citizens easy and laid back\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 We would have brushed off any idea of Soufri\'e8re Hills erupting\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 No sir, the volcano dormant, you crazy?\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Now we know that it was sleeping, not dead as we would have liked it to be\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Soufri\'e8re Hills was only resting, sometimes snoring, sometimes rumbling,\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Releasing sulphuric fumes into the air\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 All folks commenting sulphur want water\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 But in 1995 she wanted more\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 She exploded and opened her doors showering us with ash sending us into one mad dash'\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Extract from Song 'Volcano Burning' by Bernie Irish and the Alliougana singers\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
[Image 2 here]\
Sideshow\
'A tasty decoration\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 like a candle on a cake,\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 a technicolour postcard\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 of professional make,\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 or nature\'92s own networking\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 only beggarly describe\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 an egret\'92s stand-up stunt ride\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 on a willing cattle back\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 and \'91bull and bird in circus\'92 sounds\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 like a metaphor for clowns.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 It was a moving picture\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 in the waning light,\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 a bid to steal the focus\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 from the spires of Soufriere\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 misting like a ganja sacrifice\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 and the smoking of a prayer.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Cattle back was a cultural centre\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 for the white egret, its verandah theatre\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 under the stars \'96 spot to socialize\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 and be refreshed. When combing cattle\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 for tick, an hardly altruistic act,\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 this was the place to pause.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 The sideshow was a peaceful contrast\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 while it lasted; not just white on red,\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 big bearing small, but an object lesson\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 in coexistence at the instep of a mountain\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 which holds a land in thrall.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Tonight chances pique still grows,\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 an unholy dome still glows,\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 but cattle low and egrets ride\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 in spite of fire from mountain tides.'\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 'Sideshow', poem by Sir Howard Fergus\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb3 Extract from 'Volcano Verses' (Peepal Tree Press, 2003)\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf2 \cb8 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 "When the whole dome was glowing and on really still nights, when there was no wind, we had a vertical plume so you could just come to Salem and have a look at it, it looked like a lantern over there. So I spent quite a bit of time looking at the dome at nights".\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls7\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Montserrat Resident, 2019\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e3c51e04382375c4c41cef0/attachments/5e95718339074e0881a06e19/download/Plymouth_Early_Eruption_(2).jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 Plymouth Early Eruption (2).jpg}}\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
This is the first image.\
Caption: One of the first eruptions in 1995 seen from Plymouth\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: MVO Archive\
Location: Plymouth\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: 1995\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e3c51e04382375c4c41cef0/attachments/5eb40c3c925e0c0d17b87867/download/montynight_BGS_Archive.jpg"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 montynight_BGS_Archive.jpg}}\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
This is the second image.\
Caption: The glowing lava dome of Soufri\'e8re Hills in 1996.\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: BGS / NERC\
Location: Soufri\'e8re Hills\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: 1996\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\

\b Volcano Bad (Volcano Alert)\
\

\b0 Tags: Song, Science, Accounts, 1995-1996\
\
Audio:  https://soundcloud.com/mountain-aglow/red-alert-amber-alert/s-ybAPIRpcKSu, https://soundcloud.com/disaster-passed/flasher-volcano-alert/s-vnYnqlgX2AR\
Image: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e419139ed41d1502418f058/attachments/5e4191c5338e078303d35e3e/download/image.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf6 \cb5 \outl0\strokewidth0 AlertLevel.png}}
\b \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs32 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Description\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\b0\fs28 \cf2 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [embed Soundcloud 1 here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Scientists keep a constant eye on the state of activity of Soufri\'e8re Hills volcano with a wide range of techniques. Depending on the volcano's state of unrest, different volcano alert levels are assigned and communicated to the public. Each alert level comes with a set of predefined mandatory actions, such as access restrictions to certain parts of the island, or evacuations.\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [Image here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs32 \cf7 \cb8 \strokec7 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [embed Soundcloud 2 here]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Volcano Medley\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 'I know that hurricane is / Thunder lightning and rain\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 I know that when the ground start to shake / We just call it earthquake\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 I don\'92t know what is happening / I hear a loud rumbling\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Then I know it\'92s the volcano / Getting ready to blow\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Volcano bad volcano\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Volcano bad bad bad bad\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Volcano bad Volcano\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Volcano bad bad bad bad\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 And when I hear the volcano rumble oh (bu-dum-bum-ba-dum-bum)\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 And you hear the volcano rumble (bu-dum-bum-ba-dum-bum)\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 And rocks stones start to tumble (bu-dum-bum-ba-dum-bum)\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Montserrat people tremble oh (bu-dum-bum-ba-dum-bum)\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 The sulphur smelling so bad / And the ash is driving you mad\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 The thought of volcanic eruption / Have you in frustration\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 They came on the radio / Telling everybody be calm\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Pack a bag get ready to go / This is not a false alarm\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 [Chorus]\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Take the volcano seriously / To prevent a tragedy\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Try to make some preparation / In case of an eruption\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 To avoid any confusion / Listen to correct information\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \uc0\u8232 \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Do Something and stop wasting time / It might erupt any time'\cf2 \cb1 \strokec2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls8\ilvl0\cf2 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Extract from Song 'Volcano Medley' by Desmond "Flasher" Daley\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://trello.com/1/cards/5e419139ed41d1502418f058/attachments/5e4191c5338e078303d35e3e/download/image.png"}}{\fldrslt \cf4 \cb5 \strokec4 AlertLevel.png}}\cf2 \cb5 \strokec2 \
Caption: The old volcano alert level scheme for Montserrat which was in place in March 1997\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Credit: Michigan Tech University\
Location: N/A\cb1 \uc0\u8232 \cb5 Date: N/A\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 \
}